.\" $Id: bb.py.1,v 1.3 2005/04/17 17:19:32 opqdonut Exp $
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii bb.py.1
.\"

.TH bb.py 1 "APRIL 2005" Linux "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
bb.py \- the bub-n-bros server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bb.py [
.I level-file.bin
.BI "] [" options ]
.br
.B python bb.py [
.I level-file.bin
.BI "] [" options ]
.PP
Note that this script is in the
.B bubbob/ 
subdirectory of the original directory layout.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bb.py
starts an http server that acts as a control panel for the server. The
server listens on port 
.B 8000 
by default. The url for the control panel
is 
.BI http:// server : port / 0xN 
where
.I 0xN
is a random hex number (acts as minimal protection). This url is
printed when the server starts.  You can start and view games and kill
the server from this panel. The control panel also allows you to type
in the address of a server to connect to, the script will then open a
client to that server. The http server also servers java applet
clients for those players who wish to use one.

When a game is started the script opens a port for the game
server. This port can then be connected to by a client.  Clients
autodetect servers running on the local network with UDP ping on port
.BR 8056 .

.SS Connection forming

The client forms a tcp connection to the server. Or, when using the
metaserver, the server forms a connection to the client. If this
fails, the client and server try a simultaneous SYN connect. This
sometimes works if the server and client are behind firewalls. The
server then tries to transmit the data over udp. If it gets no
response from the client it will fall back to the existing tcp
connection.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI "-b " N ", --begin " N ", --start " N
Start at board (level) number
.IR N .
The default is 1. See also the
.B -s
option.

.TP
.B -h, --help
Display help.

.TP
.B -i, --infinite
Restart the server at the end of the game. Normally the server quits
after a certain period of inactivity. This is useful when used with the
.B -m
option to make a public server that is available for a long time.

.TP
.BI "-l " N ", --lives " N
Limit number of lives to 
.IR N .
If this option is not specified the number of lives will be infinite.

.TP
.B -m, --metaserver
Register server with the
.I Metaserver
(currently) at 
.BR codespeak.net:8050 .
This makes your server visible to everybody, and also facilitates
joining through a fascistic firewall.

.TP
.B --port
.IR TYPE = N
Sets default listening ports. If type is
.B LISTEN
, sets the game server port to
.IR N .
The game server port is chosen randomly by default. If the type is
.B HTTP
, sets the http server port to
.IR N .
The http server port defaults to 
.BR 8000 . 
Another port will be chosen if
none was specified and
.B 8000 
is already in use. The server also listens to
.B UDP
ping on port 
.BR 8056 .

.TP
.BI "-s " N ", --step " N
Increase board number with
.I N
when a board is completed. Defaults to 1. see also the
.B -b
option.

.SH OUTPUT
The server outputs helpful debug information concerning the http and
game servers.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR BubBob.py (1)
.BR Client.py (1)
.BR python (1)
